README.md, before:

## change-maker-api


[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api?branch=master)
[![Dependency status](https://david-dm.org/joe8bit/change-maker-api.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api)
[![Dependency status](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api#info=devDependencies&view=table)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api)

[http://api.change-maker.io/documentation](http://api.change-maker.io/documentation)

The project contains a JSON API powered primarily by the [change-maker](https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker) NPM module. It's primary purpose is as a teaching aide to demonstrate: how to build a modular and decomposed NodeJS application; and, how to do continuous integration and deployment into a scalable (production) Docker environment (in AWS).

This change making problem was picked to allow for the implementation of a (reasonably) complex but self contained algorithmic problem in JavaScript.

### API

The API exposes three routes:

```
GET /currencies
```
```
GET /currencies/{currency_code}
```
```
GET /currencies/{currency_code}/change
```

Documentation for these routes are generated automatically and [exposed here](http://api.change-maker.io/documentation).

### Development

Install and configure Docker [for your environment](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/). Then build your own image:

```
git clone https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.git
cd change-maker-api
docker build -t your-name/change-maker-api .
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 your-name/change-maker-api
```
Or pull the `latest` version from Docker Hub:

```
docker pull joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest
```

You can also run the app without Docker via the following:

```
git clone https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.git
cd change-maker-api
npm install
npm start
```

The key difference between running with Docker and without is that starting with `npm start` will run the dev server using [nodemon](https://github.com/remy/nodemon) and hot reload code.

### Testing

The following command will run the apps full test suite, this includes:

* Unit testing (build will fail if coverage is <100%)
* Linting (uses ESLint and build will also fail on any errors)
* Snyk (will check if any of the modules deps introduce security vulernabilities, will fail if they do)

```
npm test
```

### Deployment

This app is continuously deployed in the following way:

1. A commit to this repos `master` branch triggers a webhook to [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/)
2. CircleCI runs the projects tests
3. If the tests pass it builds a new version of the Docker container (`joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest`)
4. This container is then pushed automatically [into Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/joe8bit/change-maker-api/)
5. Docker Hub then sends a webhook to Docker Cloud, Docker Cloud then handles the zero downtime deploy of the container into AWS using Docker Hubs 'high availability' mode.

The container is currently deployed four times across two `micro` EC2 hosts in two `uas-east` availabilty Zones.

![image](http://i.imgur.com/34XPvaP.png)
[https://cloudcraft.co/view/a6ddad77-655a-4670-a06e-d78b4b290f18?key=iy8gmfxa9j5crgut](https://cloudcraft.co/view/a6ddad77-655a-4670-a06e-d78b4b290f18?key=iy8gmfxa9j5crgut)


## Contrubuting

All contributors will abide by the `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

update README.md with more information on production deployment [ci skip]

README.md, after:

## change-maker-api


[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api?branch=master)
[![Dependency status](https://david-dm.org/joe8bit/change-maker-api.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api)
[![Dependency status](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Joe8bit/change-maker-api#info=devDependencies&view=table)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api)

[http://api.change-maker.io/documentation](http://api.change-maker.io/documentation)

The project contains a JSON API powered primarily by the [change-maker](https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker) NPM module. It's primary purpose is as a teaching aide to demonstrate: how to build a modular and decomposed NodeJS application; and, how to do continuous integration and deployment into a scalable (production) Docker environment (in AWS).

This change making problem was picked to allow for the implementation of a (reasonably) complex but self contained algorithmic problem in JavaScript.

### API

The API exposes three routes:

```
GET /currencies
```
```
GET /currencies/{currency_code}
```
```
GET /currencies/{currency_code}/change
```

Documentation for these routes are generated automatically and [exposed here](http://api.change-maker.io/documentation).

### Development

Install and configure Docker [for your environment](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/). Then build your own image:

```
git clone https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.git
cd change-maker-api
docker build -t your-name/change-maker-api .
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 your-name/change-maker-api
```
Or pull the `latest` version from Docker Hub:

```
docker pull joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest
```

You can also run the app without Docker via the following:

```
git clone https://github.com/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api.git
cd change-maker-api
npm install
npm start
```

The key difference between running with Docker and without is that starting with `npm start` will run the dev server using [nodemon](https://github.com/remy/nodemon) and hot reload code.

### Testing

The following command will run the apps full test suite, this includes:

* Unit testing (build will fail if coverage is <100%)
* Linting (uses ESLint and build will also fail on any errors)
* Snyk (will check if any of the modules deps introduce security vulernabilities, will fail if they do)

```
npm test
```

### Deployment

This app is continuously deployed in the following way:

1. A commit to this repos `master` branch triggers a webhook to [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Joe8Bit/change-maker-api/)
2. CircleCI runs the projects tests
3. If the tests pass it builds a new version of the Docker container (`joe8bit/change-maker-api:latest`)
4. This container is then pushed automatically [into Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/joe8bit/change-maker-api/)
5. Docker Hub then sends a webhook to Docker Cloud, Docker Cloud then handles the zero downtime deploy of the container into AWS using Docker Hubs 'high availability' mode.

## Production

The application is currently deployed into a high availability cluster in Amazon Web Services, that cluster is provisioned and managed by Docker Cloud.

The `change-api` container is currently deployed four times across two EC2 instances hosted in two `us-east` availabilty zones. The diagram below demonstrates this configuration.

The `change-maker.io` domain is in a hosted zone Amazon's DNS service Route53. It points to CloudFront, Amazon's global CDN that functions as a reverse proxy/edge cache for the API.

![image](http://i.imgur.com/34XPvaP.png)
[https://cloudcraft.co/view/a6ddad77-655a-4670-a06e-d78b4b290f18?key=iy8gmfxa9j5crgut](https://cloudcraft.co/view/a6ddad77-655a-4670-a06e-d78b4b290f18?key=iy8gmfxa9j5crgut)


## Contrubuting

All contributors will abide by the `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.

## License

MIT
